[in Zulu] You know. Mandla…
[in Xhosa] Looks like we're gonna be late.
- Stand up to them.
- [in Xhosa] So why didn't you?
[in Zulu] Hey. you!
[in Afrikaans] Hey. Sarafina. out!
Get out the fucking car. man!
Get out of the car. man.
[in Xhosa] I'm begging you. my brother.
I have a child in the back. please.
[in Tswana] He's got a crèche in the back.
Why are you looking at me
like that. asshole?
I'll blow your head off.
I'll blow your head off. man.
[in Afrikaans] Calm down. Calm down.
- Hey. you. Piss off.
- Piss off!
- Piss off.
- Get out of the fucking car. man.
- [passenger screaming]
- No. man. Spyker. you always--
- Don't talk shit.
[employee. in Sotho] Boss. it was nothing.
We were just chilling with the guys.
It was just a conversation
over a few beers.
Then he asked me
where you were and who you were with.
I would never put you in danger.
I would never do that.
Then why were they looking for you?
Boss. I was broke and needed some money.
So you think it was nothing
that his boss. Rolo. wants to kill me?
And you told his driver
exactly where I am.
who I'm with and what we're doing.
Is that nothing?
Please forgive me. my boss.
I made a mistake. boss.
Boss. I'm begging you. I need this job.
I'm begging you. boss.
- Okay.
- Please forgive me.
- I'll do you a favor. boy. You hear me?
- Yes. boss.
We're going to put you up there.
- You see the top of that car?
- Yes. my boss.
That's your new position.
I'm giving you a view of everything
that's happening in the scrap yard.
Understood?
- Don't mess up.
- Oh. boss.
Thank you so much. boss.
You've helped me so much.
I don't even know what to say.
Thank you so much. boss.
It was a hit.
[in Xhosa] Portia. it was broad daylight.
Those guys were casual. no rush. walking
around without a care in the world.
They looked at each other.
then they looked at this one.
as if they were thinking of something.
[in Zulu] Maybe he should stay home then.
[Zak. in Xhosa]
Damn. what smells like that. Brother?
It smells.
- Yes.
- It smells.
- Jesus!
- Can you smell it?
Where did you get this?
At Mandela Village?
I got it from Stivovo. my friend.
- Stivovo?
- Yes.
Just throw it away. Brother.
- It's not good enough for this kitchen.
- No.
Dude. I can't throw it away.
He sold it to me at a cheap price.
It was a bargain.
- A bargain?
- Yeah.
- A bargain for this?
It's off and smells like it wasn't put
in the fridge after coming off the truck.
No. he has a fridge.
but it's not big enough.
I'm just trying this out.
Why are you being so harsh?
Thanks. thanks. my brother.
Hey. leave my order. man.
- Yeah. yeah. I know…
- What's wrong with you?
…why are you shouting?
- Do you want a burger?
- Thank you. boss.
Listen. tell my nephew
he's got a shitty dad.
- Boss. please may I have fifty rand?
- Piss off.
- [person] As old as I am?
- [Brother] Whatever.
[in Sotho] I'm going to need
another driver.
Karwas?
[Eezy] Does he know how to drive well?
Okay. go with him for today.
Teach him how to drive
and show him the ropes.
But I need to be with you. boss.
No. I'll be okay.
It's one day. don't worry about me.
[in Tswana]
Uh. take that bucket and put it there.
Be quick. hurry up.
- You know how to drive. right?
- Yes.
- Yes. let's go. Step on the clutch.
- Yeah.
Step on the brake.
start the car. and do your thing.
Don't be intimidated
by people on the road. just drive.
Go! Let's go.
No. no. no!
Push in the clutch.
Yes. that's it. go. go!
No. man. Drive the car. drive the car.
What? What are you doing?
My brother. it's tea time.
At this time? Guys. y'all aren't serious.
Piss off.
What did you say?
I said piss off.
[in Xhosa] What's wrong with you guys?
Don't your parents feed you?
[in Xhosa] Don't tell me that.
I  just wanted to scare them.
[in Tswana] Hey. you!
What the fuck are you doing?
- Hey. what are you saying?
- I'm saying your driving is shit!
What kind of rubbish driving is this?
Come here. I want you close.
I want this guy to come closer.
I want him here.
I want to show him something.
Are you high?
Didn't you see the light was red?
I'm sorry. I was the one who--
Zip this mouth of yours.
What kind of driver are you.
passing red lights?
You're the one who drove
past a red light. Are you high?
Hey. this is South Africa.
Where are you rushing to?
You're talking bullshit. Everyone saw you.
Are you stupid or what?
I'll grab you with one ball.
With your small. puppy penis.
- Piss off!
- You piss off.
- Hey. you. I'll show you your mother!
Karwas. leave me alone.
- I'm killing this boy.
- Uh-uh. whoa.
- Stop pointing at me.
- I'll kill you.
[Zak] Piss off. man.
Hey. hey. hey. What's wrong with you?
My problem is that you think the rules
don't apply to you. You know that?
[Zak] Fuck off for what?
You're not a traffic officer.
you can't tell us how to drive.
You can't drive however
you want to drive. What do you want?
My brother. look.
please go back to your child.
- I'm begging you. Please go back there.
- Wait a minute.
Karwas. this guy is provoking me.
You're a coward. man. You cow.
You're a coward. man.
I'm telling you. I'm saying run.
- [Karwas] Let him go.
- Watch your mouth when you talk to me.
Do you know who I am?
I'm the last man standing. my boy.
Ask about me in the hood.
- Nobody talks to me like that.
- No. man. Leave him alone.
[Zak] Listen here. I know
exactly who I'm talking to.
- Let me bite you.
- [Zak] I know who I'm talking to.
- What are you gonna do?
- Let me show you.
What are you doing? You're full of shit.
- Bloody shit. bloody fucking dog.
- Stop!
Dude. please leave.
- Listen. Shoes.
- Please let him go.
- Dad!
You're terrible. man.
- Please leave him.
Please let him go.
[in Tswana] You're dead. dog.
[in Zulu] Calm down. boy.
[in Afrikaans] Leave me alone.
Dude. let's go.
Man. bring my gun.
[in Sotho] So you left that boy there?
[in Tswana] His mouth is shut.
He won't say anything.
How do you know. though? Lerumo?
You're stupid. my man.
That guy is the one who provoked me.
He passed a red light.
and I had to defend myself.
That guy's crazy.
The weed he smokes is killing him.
- Which boy. that little one?
- No. the one with a six-pack.
He was acting like a tough guy.
He got out of his car and manhandled me.
Hello.
Hey. Mr. Eezy does it.
This money isn't enough.
- I don't have money.
- You don't have money? How?
You own taxis. you dress well.
while I'm struggling.
- What do you have to say about that?
- Young man. lower your voice.
An elder speaks once
and doesn't repeat themselves.
Elders. work is work.
You all know work is work.
Come again. What did you say?
What did you say?
Repeat yourself.
With your small beard.
Get out of this place.
Get out.
You busy arguing with my boss?
The big boss?
[in Xhosa] My love.
I didn't do this.
Some men ran a red light.
[in Sotho] So you work
for Ezekiel Rampedi. correct?
Yes.
The machine can't hear silent language.
The recorder isn't picking up your voice.
Oh.
Yes.
So. you were the one driving the vehicle?
- Yes.
- Who was the man driving with you?
Uh. I… I… I don't know him.
[in Sotho] My name is Kwanele.
[in Sotho] Yes. I wash the taxis at…
[in Sotho] May I ask.
how's the little boy?
[in Sotho] He's alive.
He's in ICU.
Who's this?
I don't know him.
[in Sotho] I don't know every passenger
who gets into the taxi.
[in Sotho] Listen. man.
[in Sotho] In fact. a lot of people.
were telling us that…
[in Sotho] Right?
So I'm not looking for you.
I'm looking for the guy
that was holding the gun.
I want this guy.
Kwanele. let's not bullshit
each other. you hear me?
[stammers] I don't know of a gun.
You don't know of a gun? Who's this?
- Like I said. sir--
- [shouts] Who is he. man?
I don't know him.
I don't… don't know him. sir.
May I please get a lawyer?
- [in Xhosa] Yeah. What happened now?
- [in English] Just bring me the money!
And meet me at Mohlela Clinic. please.
Right now.
[in Xhosa] Okay. I'm on it.
[in Xhosa] You're the one
we're looking for?
[in Tswana] I'm not your mother. get lost!
[in Zulu] No. don't respond.
Don't respond.
My client and I were leaving.
He has no charges.
[in Xhosa] Listen here.
you're not going anywhere.
Like I said.
this is the guy we're looking for.
Who are you pointing at. dude?
I'm pointing at you. What you gonna do
about it? This is who we're looking for.
- You got your chance.
- What chance?
- Stop staring at me. do your job!
- [detective 2] Hello.
[in Xhosa] This is the person
we're searching for.
[in Xhosa] Office for what?
Here is the guy. he's right next to me.
[in Xhosa] These people are leaving.
and you're letting them go. Can you see?
[in Xhosa] Do you not see what's going on?
Do your job. this person is leaving.
[in Zulu] All right. hey. sir. sir.
[in Sotho] What do you want to do?
Shoot!
But you can be certain
that between the two of us…
[in Xhosa] …we'll find them.
[Lerumo on video]
I'm the last man standing. my boy.
[Karwas] Stop it. man.
[bystander] He's got a gun.
[Lerumo. in Afrikaans] No man. Shoes.
[in Tswana] Get rid of him.
[in Sotho] Why me?
[in Tswana] You want to question
the boss's instructions?
This guy is forward.
He saw things he wasn't meant to see.
[Zak. in Xhosa] When I get out of here.
I'm going to fuck you up.
- Both of you.
- [Lerumo] Hey. shut up. man.
No. This is your task.
- [Zak] Fuck.
- This is your job.
Hey. man.
I'm not going to say too much to you.
Or do you want me to staple
you guys together and kill both of you?
[Shoes] Lerumo. hang on.
[Lerumo] Get rid of him.
- Lerumo. I said. wait.
- Get rid of him!
[Zak. in Xhosa] I'll fuck you up.
you piece of shit. Untie this thing. man.
You hear me? You think you're human?
You are dogs. rubbish!
Untie this shit. untie me. man!
I'm going to fuck you up.
[Shoes. in Sotho] No.
[in Xhosa]
Brother. where are you taking me?
[in Zulu] Go!
[in Tswana] I'm going to find you.
[in Sotho] After I find you.
I'm going to make you disappear.
[in Sepedi] You think
you can fuck with us?
We run this city.
[in Sotho] Nothing happens
without our say-so.
Everything works because of us.
Who do you think you are?
[in Zulu] ♪ It has fallen to the ground ♪
♪ The seed has fallen ♪
♪ The seed has fallen
It has fallen ♪
♪ It has fallen ♪
♪ It has fallen to the ground ♪
[in Zulu] Please sit over there. man.
I'll get you a detective.
[in Sotho] This guy.
[in Sotho]
What's going on with your person?
[Floyd. in Sotho] I have the boy's docket.
Sort him out.
[in Tswana] He better not
fuck you over. boss.
[Sotho] Here's a little something.
This isn't enough.
Sort out that boy. and I'll sort you out.
[Floyd] Sort me out how
while you still owe me from last year?
[Eezy] No. man.
[Lerumo] Why is he being so uptight?
What's wrong with you?
[in Xhosa] Where is it?
- What?
- You know what I'm talking about. Zuko.
- Can you please just give me the thing?
- Okay. I took it.
- Give it to me.
- I can't do that.
- [in English] Zuko. just give me the gun.
- [in Xhosa] I'm not going to do that.
I'm telling you. I won't do it.
- They fucking tried to kill me.
- Who?
- Those fucking taxi drivers.
- And?
Where is he?
[in Xhosa] What? Did you kill him?
[in Xhosa] You know what your problem is?
Your temper.
You're not thinking straight right now.
You aren't using your brain.
[in Xhosa] My son. Zuko.
[in Xhosa] The police
are also involved in this…
[in English] …so just give me that gun.
[in Xhosa] I went to jail for you
and your temper. so that you could study.
So that you could start your business
and now you want to throw it all away?
- I won't let you do that.
- You will.
What are you going to do?
- Zuko. give me the gun. Give it to me.
- I'm not going to do that.
Stop it. man.
Stop it. man!
[in Xhosa] Look at what
you've done. Brother.
I told you to give me the gun.
but you don't listen. You're so stubborn.
[in Afrikaans] Jesus! Fuck. man!
[in Xhosa] You shot me. man!
[in Zulu] You may have a seat.
[in Zulu] Listen here. Mr. Policeman.
Short man with a pot belly.
You should be on the streets
finding the man who killed my grandson
instead of bothering us.
Get out. get out. Especially you. get out!
Out!
Don't annoy me.
[Lerumo. in Tswana] Hey. My boy.
Welcome. man. you're back.
Are you still a virgin?
[Eezy] You did a good job.
- You didn't tell them anything. Hey?
- No.
- Hey. Lerumo.
- What's up?
[in Sotho] What happened to the kid?
[in Tswana] Which kid?
The one in ICU.
No. he's dead.
He's dead.
[in Tswana] What?
Yes?
No.
Don't click on that link. You know why?
It's a scam. darling.
Try going to… Do you see the…
Yeah.
No. there's another option at the top.
Yes. the one on top. Press it.
Yes. then go down to the bottom.
Scroll further down.
You see when… Can you see a button
at the bottom that says "exit group"?
Yes. press that button.
It's not a train smash. you can report it.
I love you. too.
I love you more.
[in Afrikaans] It's true.
[in English] You don't fucking move.
[in Zulu] You hear me?
[in English] You killed my son…
[in Zulu] …you dog.
[in Xhosa] You're next. do you hear me?
[in Tswana] If you were going to kill me.
I'd be dead already.
- Go.
- Where you taking me?
To the police. I said go.
You're so stupid. you know.
You're lucky you killed Shoes.
Shooting someone in the face
for the first time is no child's play.
Shoot me in my head.
Shoot. man!
Don't drive me crazy. I said shoot.
[in Zulu] Goodness. Zuko. what happened?
[in Xhosa] I got shot.
[in Zulu] Who shot you?
[in Xhosa] It's that uncontrollable
temper of his.
I know. I know. it was a mistake.
He didn't mean to. He wanted his gun.
and I took it away from him.
- Where is he?
- I don't know.
I thought you would know
where he might be.
No. I'm trying to get ahold of him.
I don't know where he is.
I thought he was here.
Where is he?
[Eezy. in Sotho] The problem
with marrying a wife with a flat chest
is that they don't feed.
[in Xhosa] A wild dog.
[in Tswana] On top of everything. boss.
he's gonna go out with piles.
Fenya. help me carry this rubbish.
Let's go.
- He's heavy.
- [Fenya] Hold the legs.
[Lerumo] Hold the legs?
This person is big.
You can tell he's always in the gym.
- [Fenya] Let me open this.
- [Lerumo] Okay. okay.
[in Sepedi] I want to show this boy
something. Pick up my goggles.
Piss off!
[Lerumo] I want to show him…
I want to show him something.
[in Sotho] Mr. Rampedi. we're not here
to play hide-and-seek. sir.
- [Eezy. in Tswana] Hey. Lerumo.
- Yes.
- [Eezy] Did you find him?
- No. boss.
[Eezy] Here. take this.
[in Sotho] This is his address.
Kill each and everything
you find in his house.
Dog. cat. woman. kill anything.
You hear me?
- [Lerumo] I'm on top of it. boss.
- Go with Karwas.
[Lerumo] Let's go. Let's go. guys.
- Go. Karwas. man.
- Why are you still dragging your feet?
[Fenya] This guy.
[Eezy] How did you lose that boy?
And what are you two doing
in my brother's house?
[Lerumo] Let's go. let's go.
[Karwas] I'm coming. I'm coming.
- [Lerumo] Why are you startled?
- [Karwas] No.
- [Lerumo] Are you wearing an underskirt?
- [Karwas] Mm-mmm.
- [Lerumo] Let's go. let's go.
- I'm not wearing an underskirt.
[in Tswana] Check the bedroom. my friend.
[Lerumo. in Tswana]
Karwas. I'm going downstairs.
The boss won't be happy.
[in Xhosa] He works for them.
If I don't do this--
[in Zulu] ♪ My beautiful home ♪
♪ My home ♪
♪ Let me enter the gate ♪
♪ Let me rest ♪
♪ Let me rest in you ♪
♪ My beautiful home ♪
♪ My home ♪
Be strong. okay?
[in Zulu] ♪ Even when ♪
♪ I'm afflicted. Lord ♪
♪ When I'm sleeping on a rock ♪
♪ And experiencing hardships ♪
♪ Lord ♪
Sorry.
[Floyd. in Sotho] Dude. this guy is crazy.
He's on his way to you.
[guard. in Xhosa] I'll take it. Brother.
[in Tswana] I'm going to find you.
And then I'm going to pull your teeth out.
[in Tswana]
Then I'm going to feed them to you.
And you'll swallow them.
I'm going to kill you. boy.
Then I'm going to bring you back to life.
So I can kill you…
again.
And again.
[in Sepedi] Come here. bastard.
Hey. man!
You want me to show you your mother?
I can't see! I can't see anything!
When I catch you. I'll…
[in Xhosa] What's so funny. you rubbish?
[Lerumo. in Tswana]
You still think you're all that.
You bird.
[in Tswana] You're such an idiot.
It was Karwas.
He grabbed the gun and pulled the trigger.
[in Xhosa] Stop lying!
[in Xhosa] Drop your gun.
[in Xhosa] Don't shoot me.
Don't shoot me. boy.
Where's Karwas?
Look. I'll tell you everything
that you want to know.
But don't shoot me.
Where is Karwas?
He's at 31-37 at T Marshall.
[Floyd. in Xhosa] Drop the gun. man.
[in Sotho] Shoot him!
[in Sotho] Shoot this devil. man.
[in Xhosa] Drop the gun. Zakhele!
[in Tswana] It was a mistake.
I never meant to kill him.
It was a mistake.
[in Afrikaans] I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
[in Zulu] Dad.
Don't do that. I'm begging you. boy.
Please. my boy. put the gun down.
Listen to me.
Put the gun down.
Put the gun down please. Tsatsi.
Come here. Come here. boy.
Come here. my boy.
[Zak. in Xhosa] I know you don't want
to talk to me right now.
If I knew better.
I would've never gotten out of that car.
And Mandla would've still been alive.
I should've listened to you. my love.
[driver] Where are you going. man?